README.md, before:

# X Personal Analytics Skill

Your AI agent can't read Twitter. Links are opaque, threads are a mess, and there's no way to check how your posts are doing without opening the app and doomscrolling.

This fixes that. It gives your agent ([Claude Code](https://claude.ai/code), [OpenClaw](https://openclaw.ai), or anything that reads a SKILL.md) full read access to your X account via the official API. No scraping, no browser automation, no suspension risk. Read-only — it never posts on your behalf.

Costs about **$1-2/month**.

> Agents: see [AGENTS.md](AGENTS.md) for command reference.

## What It Does

- **Read any tweet** — paste a URL, get the full content. No browser, no login, no screenshots
- **Thread reconstruction** — fetch entire conversations automatically
- **Morning briefing** — one command: posts + mentions + profile + follower delta (~$0.02)
- **Timeline analytics** — your recent posts with full engagement metrics
- **Mentions** — who's replying to or quoting you, with their follower count
- **Bookmarks** — save, list, and manage your bookmarked posts
- **Follower tracking** — daily count with delta over time
- **Accountability** — tells you if you're spending too much time on X
- **Budget controls** — three modes (guarded / relaxed / unlimited), daily spend tracking, dry-run on every command
- **Smart caching** — every tweet is stored locally on first fetch and never re-fetched. Incremental pulls mean only new content costs money. This is how it stays at ~$1-2/mo instead of burning $25 on a single prompt

## Getting Started

```bash
git clone https://github.com/aaronnev/x-twitter-skill.git x-twitter
```

Then follow the **[Setup Guide →](SETUP.md)** — walks you through creating an X Developer account, getting your API keys, and configuring your budget. Takes about 10 minutes.

## How to Use

### Ask your agent

You don't need to memorise commands. Just talk to your AI agent naturally:

- *"What did my last 5 tweets do?"*
- *"Who mentioned me today?"*
- *"Read this thread: https://x.com/..."*
- *"Give me my morning X briefing"*
- *"How much have I spent on the API this week?"*
- *"Am I posting too much today?"*

Your agent reads [SKILL.md](SKILL.md) and picks the right script automatically.

### Budget controls

Three modes to control how much you spend:

- **Guarded** (default) — warns you and stops when you hit your daily limit
- **Relaxed** — warns you but keeps going
- **Unlimited** — no limits, no warnings

Every command also supports `--dry-run` to preview what it would cost before making any API calls.

## Commands

For terminal use or if you want to run scripts directly:

| Command | What It Does | Cost |
|---------|-------------|------|
| `x_briefing.py` | Full morning briefing | ~$0.02 |
| `x_read.py URL` | Read any tweet by URL or ID | ~$0.005 |
| `x_read.py URL --thread` | Read full thread | ~$0.005-0.01 |
| `x_timeline.py recent` | Recent posts + engagement | ~$0.005 |
| `x_timeline.py top` | Top posts from local store | $0 |
| `x_timeline.py activity` | Accountability check | ~$0.005 |
| `x_mentions.py recent` | Recent mentions/replies | ~$0.005 |
| `x_bookmarks.py list` | Your saved bookmarks | ~$0.005 |
| `x_bookmarks.py add ID` | Bookmark a post | $0 |
| `x_user.py me` | Your profile stats | ~$0.01 |
| `x_user.py lookup USER` | Any user's profile | ~$0.01 |
| `x_setup.py --spend-report` | Weekly spend summary | $0 |
| `x_setup.py --budget-mode MODE` | Set budget mode | $0 |

All commands support `--dry-run` (preview cost) and `--no-budget` (skip budget checks).

## Cost

X API v2 is pay-per-use. This skill keeps costs low:

| Usage | Daily | Monthly |
|-------|-------|---------|
| Morning briefing only | $0.02 | $0.60 |
| Briefing + a few checks | $0.04 | $1.20 |
| Heavy monitoring | $0.10 | $3.00 |

Cost scales with **check frequency**, not followers. 100 followers or 100K — same price.

## How It Works

```
You ask your agent → Agent reads SKILL.md → runs the right script via uv
                                                      ↓
                                              Script hits X API v2
                                                      ↓
                                         Response stored locally (data/)
                                                      ↓
                                           Clean output → agent → you
```

**3 layers of cost optimization:**
1. **Persistent store** — tweets saved locally on first fetch, never re-fetched
2. **Incremental fetching** — `since_id` means only new tweets cost anything
3. **Budget guard** — tracks every API call, blocks when daily limit hit

### Why not scraping?

X is actively detecting and suspending accounts that use automated scraping, cookie-based tools, or browser automation. This skill uses OAuth 1.0a with your own API keys — no cookies, no headless browsers, no risk.

<img src="assets/nikitabier-api-vs-scraping.png" alt="@nikitabier on API vs scraping policy" width="500">

> @nikitabier [confirmed](https://x.com/nikitabier/status/2022502068486074617): *"Use the official API all you want. But any form of scraping or search that is automated will get caught."*

## FAQ

**Will this cost more if I have a big account?**
No. API cost is per-request, not per-follower.

**What if I go viral?**
Mentions might paginate (more API calls), and the briefing will flag it.

**What's the most expensive thing?**
Reading long threads. A 500-tweet thread = ~5 paginated calls ($0.025).

**Can I see exactly what I've spent?**
`uv run scripts/x_setup.py --spend-report` — daily breakdown with monthly projection.

## Roadmap

- **Real-time mention streaming** via Filtered Stream — mentions pushed, not polled
- **Engagement velocity alerts** — flag posts getting unusual traction early
- **Quote tweet detection** — surface when someone quotes your post
- **Competitor watch** — track accounts, surface their top posts

## Credits

Built by [@aaronnev_](https://x.com/aaronnev_) with [Claude Code](https://claude.ai/code) + [OpenClaw](https://openclaw.ai).

Powered by [tweepy](https://github.com/tweepy/tweepy) and [uv](https://github.com/astral-sh/uv).

## License

MIT

Commit message:

README: cost-led opener, grouped features, scapegoat line

README.md, after:

# X Personal Analytics Skill

Your AI agent can't read Twitter. And when it tries via the API, it burns through $25 on a single prompt.

This skill gives your agent read-only access to X — tweets, threads, mentions, analytics — for about **$1-2/month**. Smart caching means tweets are only fetched once, and budget controls make sure it stays that way. You set the daily limit, and the skill won't go over it.

Works with [Claude Code](https://claude.ai/code), [OpenClaw](https://openclaw.ai), or anything that reads a SKILL.md. Official API only, no scraping, no suspension risk.

> Agents: see [AGENTS.md](AGENTS.md) for command reference.

## What It Does

**Read and understand X content:**
- Read any tweet by URL — full content, no browser, no login
- Reconstruct entire threads automatically
- Save and manage bookmarks

**Monitor your account:**
- Morning briefing — posts, mentions, profile, follower delta in one command (~$0.02)
- Timeline analytics with full engagement metrics
- See who's replying to or quoting you, and how big their audience is
- Track follower count over time

**Keep costs under control:**
- Three budget modes — guarded (stops at limit), relaxed (warns only), unlimited
- Every tweet cached locally and never re-fetched
- Dry-run on any command to preview cost before calling the API
- Daily spend tracking with weekly reports

## Getting Started

```bash
git clone https://github.com/aaronnev/x-twitter-skill.git x-twitter
```

Then follow the **[Setup Guide →](SETUP.md)** — walks you through creating an X Developer account, getting your API keys, and configuring your budget. Takes about 10 minutes.

## How to Use

### Ask your agent

You don't need to memorise commands. Just talk to your AI agent naturally:

- *"What did my last 5 tweets do?"*
- *"Who mentioned me today?"*
- *"Read this thread: https://x.com/..."*
- *"Give me my morning X briefing"*
- *"How much have I spent on the API this week?"*
- *"Am I posting too much today?"*

Your agent reads [SKILL.md](SKILL.md) and picks the right script automatically.

### Budget controls

Three modes to control how much you spend:

- **Guarded** (default) — warns you and stops when you hit your daily limit
- **Relaxed** — warns you but keeps going
- **Unlimited** — no limits, no warnings

Every command also supports `--dry-run` to preview what it would cost before making any API calls.

## Commands

For terminal use or if you want to run scripts directly:

| Command | What It Does | Cost |
|---------|-------------|------|
| `x_briefing.py` | Full morning briefing | ~$0.02 |
| `x_read.py URL` | Read any tweet by URL or ID | ~$0.005 |
| `x_read.py URL --thread` | Read full thread | ~$0.005-0.01 |
| `x_timeline.py recent` | Recent posts + engagement | ~$0.005 |
| `x_timeline.py top` | Top posts from local store | $0 |
| `x_timeline.py activity` | Accountability check | ~$0.005 |
| `x_mentions.py recent` | Recent mentions/replies | ~$0.005 |
| `x_bookmarks.py list` | Your saved bookmarks | ~$0.005 |
| `x_bookmarks.py add ID` | Bookmark a post | $0 |
| `x_user.py me` | Your profile stats | ~$0.01 |
| `x_user.py lookup USER` | Any user's profile | ~$0.01 |
| `x_setup.py --spend-report` | Weekly spend summary | $0 |
| `x_setup.py --budget-mode MODE` | Set budget mode | $0 |

All commands support `--dry-run` (preview cost) and `--no-budget` (skip budget checks).

## Cost

X API v2 is pay-per-use. This skill keeps costs low:

| Usage | Daily | Monthly |
|-------|-------|---------|
| Morning briefing only | $0.02 | $0.60 |
| Briefing + a few checks | $0.04 | $1.20 |
| Heavy monitoring | $0.10 | $3.00 |

Cost scales with **check frequency**, not followers. 100 followers or 100K — same price.

## How It Works

```
You ask your agent → Agent reads SKILL.md → runs the right script via uv
                                                      ↓
                                              Script hits X API v2
                                                      ↓
                                         Response stored locally (data/)
                                                      ↓
                                           Clean output → agent → you
```

**3 layers of cost optimization:**
1. **Persistent store** — tweets saved locally on first fetch, never re-fetched
2. **Incremental fetching** — `since_id` means only new tweets cost anything
3. **Budget guard** — tracks every API call, blocks when daily limit hit

### Why not scraping?

X is actively detecting and suspending accounts that use automated scraping, cookie-based tools, or browser automation. This skill uses OAuth 1.0a with your own API keys — no cookies, no headless browsers, no risk.

<img src="assets/nikitabier-api-vs-scraping.png" alt="@nikitabier on API vs scraping policy" width="500">

> @nikitabier [confirmed](https://x.com/nikitabier/status/2022502068486074617): *"Use the official API all you want. But any form of scraping or search that is automated will get caught."*

## FAQ

**Will this cost more if I have a big account?**
No. API cost is per-request, not per-follower.

**What if I go viral?**
Mentions might paginate (more API calls), and the briefing will flag it.

**What's the most expensive thing?**
Reading long threads. A 500-tweet thread = ~5 paginated calls ($0.025).

**Can I see exactly what I've spent?**
`uv run scripts/x_setup.py --spend-report` — daily breakdown with monthly projection.

## Roadmap

- **Real-time mention streaming** via Filtered Stream — mentions pushed, not polled
- **Engagement velocity alerts** — flag posts getting unusual traction early
- **Quote tweet detection** — surface when someone quotes your post
- **Competitor watch** — track accounts, surface their top posts

## Credits

Built by [@aaronnev_](https://x.com/aaronnev_) with [Claude Code](https://claude.ai/code) + [OpenClaw](https://openclaw.ai).

Powered by [tweepy](https://github.com/tweepy/tweepy) and [uv](https://github.com/astral-sh/uv).

## License

MIT
